# MiniMaP
The codes related to the MiniMaP projects.

# Title
On-site Breast Cancer Diagnosis Using Paper Spray Ionization Miniature Mass Spectrometry

# Abstract
Conventional histopathological examination for breast core needle biopsy diagnosis is time- and labor-intensive, causing delayed medical treatments and increasing psychological burden to patients. In this study, we demonstrated a miniature mass spectrometry coupled with paper spray ionization (MiniMaP) platform for rapid and accurate breast cancer diagnosis. The adoption of paper spray ionization enables analysis without sample preparation while the miniature mass spectrometer provides cost- and size-effective solution for transferring the mass spectrometry platform into clinics. Rich molecular information collected from 180 core needle biopsy samples, including benign and malignant tissues, revealed a set of diagnostic markers for breast cancer identification. A machine learning model was built from the obtained mass spectra, achieving high accuracy (87.5%) for breast cancer diagnosis. We further conducted a 22-month multicenter validation by transferring the MiniMaP platform from centralized lab to a hospital. After the core needle biopsy surgery, the diagnostic report can be acquired within 5 min without complicated sample preparation. A consistent accuracy (84.4%) was obtained from 512 biopsy samples, proving the robustness of our platform. The model also achieved sensitivity of 78.6% in the diagnosis of ductal carcinoma in situ biopsies, showing the applicability of MiniMaP to early-stage breast cancer diagnosis. We also applied the MiniMaP platform to breast cancer molecular subtyping, with an overall accuracy of 76.6% being achieved. Our results demonstrated that the MiniMaP platform is feasible to be implemented into clinics for routine breast cancer diagnosis, providing instant diagnostic reports to patients and physicians for better medical care.
